The idea is simple: Big Data for construction. We use the blackhat helmet tracker to collect information about the activity of the wearer such as movement data and environmental variables. We use this data to generate two different sets of analyses.
The first one is for the employer, the contractor, because without his willing cooperation, deploying any device at a construction site will not be easy. The movement data collected is used to create a performance profile of each worker with a helmet, and this will provide the employer with data about the state of his employees that are employed in different occupations at the same time. With this data, it becomes easy to isolate sections that are overstaffed or understaffed, and to move redistribute unskilled labor where possible to improve overall productivity to meet deadlines and save thousands. 
It will also help to identify areas where workers are overworked, and the resulting redistribution will ensure that lapses of concentration and judgement on the part of the workers becomes a thing of the past.

The second part of this analysis is to use the assessment of the environment and the worker's activity to provide a comprehensive safety report to the authorities. This will inform them about worker safety and provide large amounts to data to analyse and combat problems of low visibility, poor lighting, or workplace injuries.

Both analyses are compiled for easy understanding into singular scores: The productivity score and the safety score. The productivity score, where higher is better, is a dimensionless indicator of the performance of a worker. The safety score, where lower is better, is an indicator of the overall safety of a workplace. The safety score can also be used by insurance companies to decide premiums for construction workers.

The analysis happens in the linkit one, using state of the art sensors that measure falls, humidity and temperature. Any number of sensors can be added on as the situation requires, because the final product is not the sensors, it's the software. 
